it's time to learn the exact road map
for your B2B or SAS company to drive
Pipeline and revenue from SEO in record
[Music]
time hey I'm Sam Dunning founder over at
breaking bb.com in this episode I'm
going to share the exact road map so you
can start from fresh or perhaps you've
already invested in SEO a little bit but
I'm going to share the tactics tips and
strategy so your B2B or SAS company can
make SEO a solid channel for signups
leads demos and revenue everything from
initial customer research keyword
planning topic planning creating content
that ranks resonates and converts
earning top quality back links to
significantly ramp not just vanity
traffic but high quality traffic for
those prospects that actively are in
market for your offerings right now are
searching for problems that you solve or
comparing you to Alternatives so you can
make SEO a top Revenue driver for your
B2B or SAS company let's dive in so SEO
in in simple terms for revenue or
commercial value is how can we attract
Target prospects dream clients that are
ready to have a sales conversation now
or in the near
future and in B2B Tech in SAS that
usually looks like folks that are quite
ready to take a trial take a sign up
book a demo or request a sales schol so
in simple terms what are they searching
on Google when they're most likely to
have the intent of being ready to speak
to a salesperson or ready to take some
kind of action on your website be that
self- sered take a trial book of demo
that that's the simplest way I can put
commercial SEO and usually we'll dive
into this these are longtail keywords
that you go after that are kind of super
relevant to your offer and I suppose the
the opposite to that approach is going
for kind of more top of funnel traffic
more informational as opposed to
commercial traffic where someone's more
so looking to learn about a topic
looking to inform themsel looking to
educate or maybe they have an early
stage problem um so that's more kind of
what we call top of funnel SEO
information based which yeah there is a
play for it for sure and happy to kind
of talk more about that whereas kind of
we' like to start more the bottom end
which is commercial traffic AKA and
that's what most B2B Tech SAS companies
want right they want to drive demos they
want to drive commercial value they want
to drive revenue from SEO as quick as
humanly possible so usually it makes
sense to start like what are those folks
going to type into a search engine when
they're ready to take some kind of
action they're not typing it for fun
they're typing it because they want to
speak to a salesperson book a demo take
a trial very very interesting Sam and I
remember actually when when when you
kind of approached us to to do this
podcast you were talking about this
Revenue focused SEO strategy and it's
it's very similar now to what we're
doing at cognizant because back in the
day when I started in this company um
we' were doing a lot more as you said
the kind of tofu information sort of
Education based keywords things like
what is B2B lead generation and what is
B2B sales doing things around those sort
of like very very broad topics but over
time we we've very much evolved our
strategy to this what we call the money
keyword strategy which is based around
yeah those bofu keywords you know people
that um people that you know who who are
really really searching for some for a
solution like cognism would type into
Google so for instance you'd have
keywords like B2B contact database or
data enrichment tool or something like
that you know those kind of really like
people who are like really looking and
and and want to research more about
about what cognism actually is and does
so these two strategies that we that
we're both talking about align really
really closely which is which is very
very interesting yeah yeah yeah and I
think didn't you do some work early on
with Gano kind of has a similar mindset
to myself when it comes to kind of
commercial focused SEO we probably
disagree a bit on some terms but I think
most seos disagree on on some stuff
otherwise it wouldn't be fun out there
if we all said the same
stuff you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me yeah I think I think that's the way
to go but that said I think there is a
play for some top of funnel but it has
to be very crisp and specific and again
happy to to get into that yeah I mean
what before we get into the bofu stuff
let's let's start at the top top of the
and work down so why why not go into
that Sam like um yeah how would you
approach a kind of a tofu content
strategy yeah yeah yeah and I I'll share
kind of the the format and the kind of
framework that we use in a sec for kind
of starting bottom up but if we start
from the top like like you say many
companies get and sometimes it's not own
their their fault so sometimes what I
see that forces companies to take a top
of funnel SEO strategy that might drive
some traffic but never really results in
qualified leads or inbounds is often
because they've maybe got a really small
marketing team or limited
resources so as a result the the company
might have neglected for SEO for ages
and that could be due to a number of
things it could be because their Venture
backed or they investor backed um so
they've done the traditional outbound
sales model they've invested a ton into
paid media maybe they've done a ton into
events and then eventually they've
thought the exec team have thought well
every time I search for a offer on
Google or look for problems we fix or
similar then competitors are showing up
way ahead of us stealing that traffic
stealing that mind share stealing that
brand reputation and stealing those
inbound leads from organic search they
think it's about time we did SEO so
they're like okay we want to do SEO and
so they speak to maybe their small
marketing team of one or two they're
like right guys we need to do some SEO
and the problem is that market is so
stretched so thin on resources is that
they don't really have the time to do it
because they' probably got a ton of
other tasks on their plate and as a
result what they'll probably do is go to
a tool like H refs or sem rush or one of
the classic SEO tools Uber suggest
whatever it may be look for a query
that's relevant to their offer probably
one that has a lot of traffic like how
to do x what is a kpi what is this best
ways to do that and you'll find that
those kind of informational top of
funnel queries will show up as a lot of
traffic in your common tools and then
they might pump that query through a
tool like chat gbt or similar to to get
a Blog article then you might make a few
tweaks cheuck it on their blog on their
website and then get back to to the
other 100 tasks that they've got to do
for the week couple months go by the
team might say kind of how how's SEO
going how are the results and that the
marketer would be like yeah great
published a Blog did some SEO like you
said and they'll say how many leads did
it drive they like none but you didn't
tell me to do SEO to drive commercial
value or to drive leads you just said
quote unquote do some SEO and that's
what I did
and that's where the problem in the
mindset is like kind of folks think that
as an SEO is a simple Chuck it into a
keyword research tool hope for the best
Chuck out a Blog and yeah that might D
result in a bit of traffic but it's
probably not converts going to convert
someone if it's kind of really
informational stage of their Journey but
to flip that on its head if you if you
do want to Track Attack top funio we we
quite like to do the jobs to be done
framework so really understand ing how
someone is doing a specific job task or
offer today and what is the struggling
moment that they face where that way
they're getting the job done now becomes
so painful cost them churn cost them
staff cost them Revenue cost them time
that there must be a better way so
they're not yet knowing that your
solution exists but they're searching to
fix it and what that might look like
these are very crisp specific terms not
like General like what is a spreadsheet
what is a kpi that where it's probably
just a student or someone looking to
educate themsel we want to know what is
the the customer searching for when they
have that Cris problem and that comes
from customer research usually or
listening to sales calls listening to CS
schols listening to prospecting calls
and for example if you offered some kind
of calendar scheduling solution it might
be something like how to create a
calendar within Google Sheets or in your
folks case um well let's let's say you
provided a power dialer maybe it's how
to make more dials on a mobile phone in
a certain amount of time or something
like that if you provide a power dial
solution like what is the cumbersome
issue they face when trying to do this
thing in house or it might be if you've
provided a CRM solution like how to
export data from Google Suite into
Google Sheets or something like that
this crisp way that they're doing it
right now then they've thought this is
taking me five six seven hours a week
like this is painful I need to fix it so
those how-to crisp and specific problem
based searches can be useful and the way
they actually drive impact is they're
usually articles and it'll say look this
is a this is how you can fix it but
you're probably spending x amount of
time on this per week like five plus
hours and this is the impact it's
probably having on your business this is
the new better way this is how our
product's going to save you time
basically you're positioning your offer
as a painkiller and then you're you're
having some social proof like customer
ques testimonials whatever and then
you're probably having like get a free
trial get a sign up whatever so that's
how top of funnel stuff can actually be
more Revenue driven as opposed to what
is X what is y and then a simple
explanation that can be answered by AI
those are those are really great tips
Sam thanks for sharing but like yeah
again again it resonates very much with
with with my um experience of cognism
because we started out as I said with a
very kind of top of funnel uh content
and SEO strategy and you know we found
that we were getting thousands of
website visitors per month but not very
many of them were converting um you know
which is why we kind of switch to the to
to the bofu money keyword strategy so
let's get into this Revenue focused side
of SEO Sam so how how would you start a
revenue focused SEO strategy like how
how would you find in particular those
High intent keywords that that would
really Drive Revenue I'm a simple guy so
most of my strategies are very simple so
I one of the most straightforward
exercises that I'd encourage folks to do
there
perhaps not driving much in the way of
inbounds signups leads demos for S year
right now as I'd literally just do what
I did when I started breaking B to be
seven eight months back fire up a Google
sheet or an Excel sheet make a list of a
few columns and within those colums I
would do one column for the main offer
we actually want to sell so if you're in
SAS maybe that's I don't know calendar
scheduling software whatever and all the
variance that that could be is it
referred to as calendar scheduling
software tools platform solution
Etc that's one of your your columns your
main offers the second is the the niches
or the industries that you actually want
to serve but these aren't just any
niches that you think will work well
Industries these are ones that have
historically invested well into your
offer so Perhaps Perhaps you've got a
good database with past
customers um they have the problem you
fix they are motivated to fix it and
most importantly they have cash to
invest in your offer um that's the
second column the third is going to be
the competitors so all of your main
competitors that you're against so any
any that the three four five that
constantly come up on sales calls that
your sales people are starting to get
annoyed like we've always got to come up
against these um and then the next
column will be what we talked about
earlier kind of jobs to be done like
what are the main problems frustrations
that folks face um what is maybe the
ways they're getting this job done in
house right now and the kind of Tipping
Point that they might face when they
want to evaluate a vendor like yours um
that's probably the first first thing
I'd stick to and then from there once
we've got this column of kind of main
offers main industries main competitors
main problems this works quite well in t
Tech and SAS but you can evalue it you
can evolve it into B2B service which I'm
happy to share as well like we did how
we did for my company and then once
you've got those you basically want to
make longtail commercial Focus keywords
out of them so if you were in the
calendar scheduling
game um you might look at longtail
keywords like best calendar scheduling
software best calendar booking tools
best calendar scheduling
platform calendar scheduling platform
calendar scheduling tools that kind of
stuff these kind of longtail queries
where not just calendar scheduling
because if someone's searching for that
it's more information based if they're
searching for Tool platform software
tools and they have the intent they
actually want to speak to a vendor
around it but those those keywords if
you run them through a tool at Rush
they're going to be competitive right
you're going to face cly you're going to
face chili Piper Revenue hero Hub SWOT
meetings it's going to be hard to rank
those for so those are be more long-term
queries that you look to build content
out and rank for and we can talk about
how you can do that and build links to
them but we probably want to Niche down
so we probably want to then go a bit
further in and then making those a bit
longer T so we might go for things like
Canada scheduling tool for our industry
so for sales teams or calendar
scheduling tool for HR calendar
scheduling tool for recruitment or
whatever our Industries are that'll be
one play and then likewise we'll also
basically we completely exhausting this
bottom funnel and then we also want to
look at in the SAS World in B2B Tech B2B
SAS not as relevant for service based
Industries but alternative competitor
based searches so that might be if we
link it back to the calendar scheduling
world that might be chili Piper
Alternatives or calendary Alternatives
or calendary pricing or Revenue hero
pricing or Revenue hero reviews or that
kind of stuff and those kind of keywords
work super well because as you'll know
when it comes to B2B Tech um buyers
often evaluate three or four vendors
before they decide to invest and that's
why they'll often search to make sure
they're getting the best deal and if
they are on the fence comparing offers
they'll search for things like
competitor Alternatives competitor
pricing compared to reviews that kind of
stuff and then they they'll Aggregate
and kind of make their decisions so that
the the first thing you want to do is
make that list in a simple Google sheet
run some of those keywords through a
tool like samash H refs to check they've
got a little bit of search volume but
don't be too put off about the amount of
search volume because these commercial
ceries will have way less search volume
than the top of funnel Stuff how to do
something best ways to do something what
is X which is good because the folks
have more intent and are more likely to
land on your page and book a demo so
that's the first step and then once
you've kind of really exhausted all
those options then you to jump into
building pages that are actually going
to rank and surpass your competitors
which we can dive into in a
sec yeah yeah that would be great Sam
yeah you could go for it yeah tell us
about that yeah so again very simple
process I follow here so we've exhausted
the main bottom of funnel Search terms
we want to look at the next thing is to
see what type of content or what type of
page is actually going to rank so if we
look at keywords like best calendar
scheduling software best calendar tools
best calendar scheduling platform those
kind of keywords usually if you type all
you got to do is type into Google look
at the top three organic search results
and typically those kind of keywords
this this process is called assessing
page intent so you want to see what
Google expects what type of page they
expect and usually for those kind of
keywords comparison ones or top X
software they're going to be
listicles the top X platforms of 2024
something like that and you'll have a
list of 10 or so and there there's a
simple way to make something more
detailed you basically evaluate what's
ranking top but you look for gaps in
their their strategy so quite often
companies will just do a bit of a write
up so they say what is kind of
scheduling software in this case they'll
position their offer as number one
they'll probably just talk about how
great they are and then have a call to
action to Pi a demo or trial take a sign
up whereas what you really should be
doing is showing folks why you so
leveraging Insight from Sal calls
success calls support calls and kind of
really sharing your points of
differentation and maybe you've got like
a table like this is us pinned against
our main competitor this is why people
choose us this is the problems they fix
we fix that they don't this is where we
Excel um and then maybe back that up
with like a nice customer review video
of why they chose you and then then a
click all to action to sign up or book a
demo and then you have a fa Fair
evaluation of the other vendors in that
lisal underneath um and I'd always
encourage you like um don't really do
things in half measures so if the top
list if the top page was top 10 then I'd
just try and blow out the water and just
do top 20 top 20 of 24 so that way I
don't have to go back in a few months
time and try and do something more
detailed so that that's one strategy and
you'll find that if you're searching for
keywords like the competitor keywords
like competitor alternative or
competitor pricing or competitor reviews
those tend to bring up
listicles as well alternative based
keywords tend to bring like like the top
10 Revenue hero Alternatives of 2024
it'll be a similar practice but from my
experience alternative based keywords
can be quite a quick win like we built a
bunch of those for one of our leadership
SAS management software clients and we
we started ranking some of those with 30
days and like driving pipeline in quite
a short space of time which I'm sure
you're used to it Joe like there's
there's a common saying that goes out
there like SEO needs six to 12 months
and sure for competitive keywords like
best X software it probably does but
when you're going after more specific
stuff like competitor Alternatives or
long
offer for product for Niche those can
rank a lot quicker um and likewise those
jobs to be done top funnel how to
Searchers can rank quite quite fast as
well um but what you might find is when
you're searching for some of these
keywords they might bring up landing
pages which is a different type of page
so in that case you want to evaluate the
top three organic landing pages and look
for gaps in their strategies so maybe at
the top of their page they've got a here
area that says this is the offer and
then maybe they're going straight into
features so maybe you want to kind of
flip on it and maybe have your hero area
with your value prop and then maybe talk
about the problem that someone might be
facing talk about the impact and not
fixing it and then position your
solution as the offer you might want to
weave in a YouTube embed a YouTube video
which seems to help quite a lot of SEO
from my experience if you can weave in a
relevant YouTube video on the topic um
and also it can help your clickthrough
right in the search engine results page
because sometimes you get a nice
thumbnail next to it and sometimes you
can get an extra bit of real estate in
the search end results page because you
can show up in the video section so you
almost get like a three in one hit you
get extra boost on your page you get
possibly more click-through rates with
the thumbnail and then you you also
obviously get YouTube search if you've
built it for that that purpose that's
quite nice um and yeah M basically the
one of the biggest issues I see in SEO
is Pages just don't resonate with with
Focus clients so making sure when you're
building the content for this page
whether it is a a listicle an article or
a landing page that you're really taking
the time to speak to either subject
matter in your team or pulling insights
from sales prospects so you can actually
make sure that if the page ranks then
it's actually got more chance to convert
so we're kind of linking back to to
problems linking back to frustrations
positioning our offer as a solution and
then if it's a landing page we might
handle objections or questions directly
on that page so we might weave in like a
FAQ section at the bottom but not just
like so many B2B companies and tech
companies do putting random FAQs like I
don't know maybe you land on your your P
one of your pages Joe and cognism like
what is contact data like people know
what contact data is we want to go to
specific questions that are relevant to
the topic on the page like if it was a
sales page specifically for one of your
offers like why should I choose you over
X competitor what's your onboarding like
what's the starting rates um what's your
refund policy how long does it take to
get started on the software F questions
that actually get asked on sales schure
it shows transparency appeals to
Google's framework experience expertise
Authority and trust and also Al helps
with sales enablement so A salesperson
could actually link one of these Pages
out to a prospect and it would be
genuinely useful for that Prospect and
maybe even speed up the sales cycle
because it addresses their queries so
that few tips on the content side and
then I suppose the other frustrating
side I see a lot in B2B B2B and sash is
that so much technical SEO advice is
kind of BS in the sense that you don't
need to do loads of technical SEO for
for websites unless you get to thousands
and thousands of pages um and usually
that's Ecom sites which is not something
I deal with at all so you you only
really need to do the basics on
technical SEO when and from an actual
standpoint that's making sure the focus
keyword so if we said go back to our
competitor alternative keywords like for
example if it was a calendly alternative
keyword might be yourdomain.com
calendly Alternatives that's you include
the keyword in url you include your
focus keyword in The Meta title In The
Meta description you include it in H1 H1
heading tag on your on your page apart
from that you don't need to do that much
like you don't need to mess around with
image old tags you don't need to make
your website speed .1 second faster you
don't need to do months and months of
audits if you follow the basics and yes
your website should look at a decent
speed it should look decent on mobile
your article should be skimmable and
kind of have a nice design um and
likewise with your landing pages and
such but a lot of time gets wasted we
see from Agents IES on technical SEO
when publishing content at speed is so
much more valuable if you can exhaust
like we talked about there if you can do
that activity exhaust that b bottom of
the funnel really understand what what
folks are searching for when they need
your offer have the problem you fix or
comparing you to alternatives on Google
and then have a have a bias towards
publishing that content seeing what
ranks giving it two to three months and
then making improvements that will be so
much more valuable to your to your team
than messing around with technical SEO
especially at startup or a company that
has neglected SEO to
date yeah I agree Sam totally agree with
everything you've just said there I mean
certainly we've always been very focused
on publishing things really quickly
because the thing is as well is and a
lot of people kind of maybe forget about
this sometimes in content and SEO but
but a Blog is always editable you can
always go back and change it you can
always go back and make it better and
you know they're not tablets to Stone
and our thing is just well even if it's
like 75% of the way there just get
published get it out get it out in the
wild and then you can always just go
back and iterate and make it better um
later on and you also mentioned what I
mean a a whole part of this sort of
Revenue focused SEO strategy a lot of it
is talking about competitors um and I
think some people get quite wary about
that about like we're going to be doing
like dois of competitors um so how have
you how have you managed that because
cognism and I I think you did you did
touch on it earlier you said um
something about you know you just want
to be honest and and we've always done
that you know it's never been about like
putting competitors down it's it's just
making us look good rather than making
them look bad is is that something that
resonates with you Sam yeah and it is a
tricky one because there's often a quick
win for B2B SAS companies by going after
those alternative keywords or pricing
keywords or review keywords that kind of
stuff but some companies just flat out
won't do it it tends to be the bigger
bigger software companies more
Enterprise mainly because they're scared
of a legal battle or something similar
which I kind of understand if you're
huge and I'm talking like thousands and
thousands of employees software company
I kind of get it
um but it is a really good play at the
bottom of the funnel because like if you
think of your own buying Journey like if
you're evaluating a fairly expensive
piece of software there going to be a
significant investment I 50k plus a year
and you you are you're not just going to
dive in and buy the first vendor that
you hear about you probably are going to
compare three or four vendors you're
going to speak to the rest of your exec
team you're going to do research on
Google you're probably going to check
them out on LinkedIn you might consume
some of their articles you might listen
to their podcast listen to their YouTube
whatever yeah so and and that that comes
into that play really the fact that B2B
is a very messy buying cycle especially
the more higher ticket and higher value
your solution is there's a lot of back
back and forth a lot of up and downs a
lot of evaluating and talking to exact
teams and whatever so that's why those
keywords work and like to your point
you've got to be sensible in the sense
that if you are doing the top 10
competitor alternatives for this year
yeah by all means positioning your offer
number one and yeah share your
differenti share why two people choose
you do comparison tables make it kind of
stand out that a clear choice but you
have to do a fair evaluation of your
vendors otherwise you're just going to
get aggro from them kind of contacting
you saying look this isn't a fa
evaluation but it is standard practice
like and the problem is if you avoid
that if you search for some of those
terms like best X software best X
tools X Alternatives that that's what
Google shows that's what Google displays
as typically as a top three results with
some change like sometimes landing pages
do sneak in there and it is possible to
rank landing pages but it's usually a
lot easier to rank a a product lisal
like this they just prefers to that
content and until they don't you're
going to struggle to rank
for sure for sure so one other thing as
well that I think is interesting and
good to talk about is that a lot of
these bofu high intent keywords they
don't they don't come with um with like
high traffic volumes or search volumes
and some people in leadership don't like
that you know they they sort of see but
this is own no no one's really searching
for these terms how would you
convince one of your clients or someone
in leadership that actually you need to
switch your focus from those high
traffic keywords that although you know
it gives you these great vanity metrics
gives you all the views and all the
website visits but no one's actually
converting from those keywords how do
you how do you convince them to make
that mindset
switch you can't really because people
really need to convince their themselves
so if someone's off that mindset that
they only want to get traffic then it's
very very difficult to to switch their
mindset
unless like I would ask them a question
I I'd ask straightforward questions like
how much of that traffic you're getting
is converting into demo requests signups
trials things like that and if they
would to push back if one of the exact
team was to push back with oh but we're
getting loads of traffic and it's
building our brand it's building our
mind share all that kind of stuff I'd
say we're probably past the point of me
being able to help you um whereas if if
I could say look I mean we we tend to
flip that on its head and we we'd rather
focus on Yeah by all means traffic is
fine but we want to focus on valuable
traffic and what you'll often
on the commercial kind of keywords and
the strategy that we've talked about so
far is they will yield less traffic but
be a much higher buying intent AKA folks
that are way more likely to request a
sales call or book a demo whatever the
action we want them to take and if they
say that sounds good then great let's
open the door and have a chat and
usually from my experience anyway exact
teams need to be bought into SEO they
need to have history with SEO or they
need to have marketers on their team
that are proponents of SEO and organic
search otherwi it's exceptionally
difficult it's exceptionally difficult
I've SP I mean I've just got off a call
with a a cloud um software company and
they were kind of pushing pushing mqls
and almost at the case where they did so
much top of funnel SEO and they said
like last month they drove 80 or so mqls
but they're pretty sure that none of
them were going to close and I was like
well it's just it goes top down
leadership wise and it's like if that is
your focus then that's what marketing
team are going to be uh assessed on and
then sales are going to get pissed off
because they're not closing any of the
deals that come through and it's like it
needs a it needs the right mindset and
sometimes you can't help those folks if
they don't want to listen whereas TI is
if they've got marketers inside that
know the value of organic search or
they've got leadership that know the
value of organic search or if you can
show them look this is what this is what
prospects are actually searching when
they have intent to to buy your offer
and right now all your competitors are
showing above you stealing that traffic
stealing that that brand stealing that
mind share stealing those inbounds do
you want to fix that yes or
no it's a great question to ask Sam
great question to ask so um you touched
a bit on it earlier I think you
mentioned it but um how how would you
because obviously the next big part of
of of any part of SEO you've got the the
on page content itself which we which
we've covered and the keyword but then
you have the the thorny issue of
backlinks Sam is is backlink part of
your strategy as well yeah yeah yeah and
what you'll see is for some there are
some plays where you can get content if
you have a a bias towards publishing
content like we talked about you can
rank content without backlinks usually
the more Niche more specific it is to
your offer the easier it is to rank so
when you go for like offer for solution
for industry those tend to be a bit easy
to rank sometimes the competitor
Alternatives if there's not a lot of
people doing it can rank quite fast um
but when you get to more competitive
ones like best X software best Canada
software best Canada tools that kind of
stuff that's going to be really tough to
rank and you're not going to be even if
you do a Best in Class page that's way
more informative helpful useful detailed
comprehensive trustworthy than your
competitors it's just not going to rank
against Titans like chili Piper cly Etc
that's when you're going to need to
build links um so I'm not saying you
always need links for SEO but you do
want it gets more competitive and
there's a few ways that we like to build
them like there's a few examples I can
give that aren't going to cost you any
cash but just a bit of Sweat Equity
really in time one is if you're an
established company then you can
leverage past Media or press from your
Founders or execu tee I.E you could just
go into a tool at HFS and look for back
links and you might be able to find some
P PR that they've had but maybe that PR
linked to a random page or link to your
homepage and what you could do is
contact whoever wrote that article and
just say hey would you mind kind of
tweaking this so we can actually link to
a focus page that we're going after so
you can get an anchor do follow link to
one of those Focus pages on one of the
focus keywords um another play is to one
of my favorites is actually Partnerships
so finding out companies that Target the
same ICP same Idol client
profile but are not direct competitors
they're going after the same audience
but not not direct uh not going to cause
a fight so as an example for us at
breaking B2B so we we do B2B and S SEO
in content marketing so we I one of my
friends um Justin row runs an an agency
called impactable they do LinkedIn ads
and because I've been friends with him a
while he was like a natural fit so when
I fired up this agency I was reaching
out to folks to create content together
so I said look can I create a guest
article on your site let me know what
topic you want as long as it's vaguely
related to SEO websites I can write
about it so I did wrot them a nice
article which ranked actually quite
quick in like 30 days on I think it was
around producing bounce rate or
something like that and then just asked
for a link back to one of our Focus
pages and the good thing about
partnership players you don't have to do
your guest blog necessarily um and if
you're wondering about the best way to
approach that with someone called my
favorite way is through Linkedin so find
let's say you made a list of maybe some
companies you want to Target and you've
noted down maybe their demand gen leader
or their marketing leader or their
founder I'm a big fan of painfully short
LinkedIn messages so I would literally
say some like hey Justin or hey Janice
um have an unusual content idea to scale
our traffic in inbound leads are you
against a conversation and they'll
probably reply to me like some like Sam
what the hell are you want about like
tell me more and I'll just send them a
loon video just showing what I mean and
that that's probably one of the easiest
ways to stand out from all the BS
messages and walls of text um if you
want to go about this strategy but the
good thing about a partnership play is
that it doesn't have to be an article it
could be you do a podcast together like
you invite someone to your podcast or
you go guest on theirs um maybe you
create a little mini video series for
LinkedIn or YouTube and then you build
that article Pages for each one on each
other's sites and then you link back to
kind of focus keywords those work quite
nice um or podcasting in itself can be a
play so like that's something I've done
fairly strategically recently like
there's a website called listen notes
where you can literally go on listen
notes type in your industry in my case
SAS SAS marketing B2B marketing and
other people's cases maybe fintech
e-commerce whatever your industry is and
you can find out the top shows in your
sector who hosts them you can just reach
out to on LinkedIn with that strategy I
just told you and you can apply to be a
guest on their show do a really useful
helpful educational episode and then
after when they post the article on
their website as for a link back so
there's there's a lot of Sweat Equity
ways to build decent links from decent
sites but they just take more effort as
opposed to paying a team to buy links
and do it all for you it's really good
really really good tips there Sam thanks
very much so um we've we've covered this
topic in depth but what what are the
metrics that that you track to judge
whether or not a revenue focused SEO
strategy has been
successful yeah yeah yeah so I suppose
there's a few and I'd encourage if
there's marketers tuning in that want to
kind of get stuck into this stuff to
show signs of life to leadership as soon
soon as possible so that might be things
like okay we've we've identified our
commercial our money keywords I bought
my final keywords we've started
publishing content for them as soon as
you can see uplifts in in rankings then
share that with your company slack group
or Google Drive however you do it um
then as a result hopefully you should
see an uptick in relevant traffic and
then as a result of that an uptick in
session times on your relevant pages so
if you've got competitor Pages
comparison Pages landing pages for
specific offers or service Pages
specific off or product pages if those
session times and those view times on
those pages going up that's kind of good
quality of data um and then on the back
end we want to start seeing once we're
getting kind of top three positions
organically for some of those keywords
naturally we want to start seeing if
they're commercial keywords we want to
start seeing signups or demos or if
they're phoning into to you we want to
start asking Us sales people to ask on
those calls like how did you first hear
about us if they say the internet we
dive into that we say okay great what
did you search exactly or what was your
full route to stumbling upon us today
then hopefully they might mention Google
search and if we can get a snippet of
that gong recording Chuck that into your
slack group any times you can show sign
of life or proof of concept great if
they're more top of funnel keywords we
talked about earlier like how to
specific jobs to be done problem
searches then they might not be as
likely to yes we can report rankings
session time traffic
Etc and of course you can use intent
tools to do a lot of cool out stuff but
if we want to report on metrics there
then on those how-to articles then they
might be more if we've got a nice
skimmable well-designed article they
might lead people to a lead Magnet or
they might lead people to check out the
podcast or they might lead people to
check out the YouTube so if we can show
that people are taking some kind of top
of funnel action and report on that
again that's going to be nice to to
share those are working definitely
definitely thanks Sam and speaking of
tools in Tech what are the sort of the
must used tools that that that you have
to to power a revenue focused SEO
strategy yeah I'm again I'm very simple
I I don't get involved in a lot of the
technical side of things that's why I
have web devs a lot smarter than me to
do that so a lot of my stuff is just
simple like we we use hat refs mainly
because I've done work with them in the
past and we so we use that as a keyword
identification tool of course analytic
Google analytics search console
HFS I use Google Sheets a lot for a lot
of our kind of basic manual reporting
and reviews and such like that um and
then the the technical team we use tools
like screaming frog and such for for
more detailed Audits and and pull-ups
when they need to um but a lot of the
stuff we do like we're not using a ton
of AI right now so a lot of our stuff to
really build out content that resonates
is taking the time of working with
clients to understand like problems they
fix impact and not fixing them for the
dream clients and results they bring to
the table what insights we can pull from
sales calls what thought leadership we
can pull into articles landing pages and
such a lot of it more manual and pulling
those insights out and then putting
those into compelling pages that are
going to resonate um and also going to
rank so yeah we sometimes use AI tools
to build Frameworks for pages but not
all that much just yet still quite a lot
of kind of more manual processes to be
fair yeah I think that's that's very
similar to to what we're what we do at
cognizant because again for those bofu
High intent pages you need you need
detail and uh you know AI is great for
certain types of content but but for
that kind of like detail both through
kind of really buy a focus content it's
not it's not Advanced enough yet to sort
of produce that stuff probably in a few
years time it might be but I think at
the moment it's um we can't really can't
really handle it um yeah so I mean yeah
you can you can do like really good blog
outlines and things with it but um if
you're going to be writing about
competitors for example you know you
want to be going on the websites you
want to be going on G2 to and other we
and other sort of like Tool Tech
websites like review sites so yeah I
think that's where you find the real the
real Dell for those kind of pages yeah
exactly completely agree great great
cool well um Sam we've actually kind of
come to the end of of the questions I've
got is is there anything that you wanted
to
add I think that's it I think where a
lot of like you said like there's
there's a number of reasons why SEO
doesn't work B2B and SAS companies one
is cuz leadership just simply won't buy
into it in which case it might never
happen um two is because there's too
much red tape which tends to happen a
lot in larger scale corporations from
our experience things were move way too
slowly so like you might come up with
your focus keywords build out your focus
topics then start planning pages but
takes you like a month to write one page
get that approved by the rest of the
exec management team takes you another
month to design it takes you another
month to code it another a month to go
through sign off and if you're a scrappy
startup or midmarket company that can
move fast that is your superpower so if
you can really have a bias towards
exhausting those bottom of funnel middle
funnel search queries and really have a
bias towards publishing first tracking
then optimizing and just hitting that
full steam that really is how you can
get a start seeing a dent in SEO rather
than waiting six 12 months and 30 days
60 days 90 days it does work um and then
if you can complement that with like a
Sweat Equity link building
structure it's it's going to be really
useful on the basis that I suppose one
of the things I should say is SEO is
always best placed as a demand capture
channel so what I mean by that is f if
folks are actually aware of your
solution your offer they know it exists
whereas if you are a new category where
people aren't necessarily searching for
your offer your tool solution your
service on Google then SEO might be a
bit too early for you unless you want to
start top funnel you're probably better
off spending your time cash or resource
on channels that you're Target prospects
are already hang out hanging out on
which probably isn't Google and there we
have it I hope you found this episode of
use if you do want to grab my 90 days to
revenue with SEO Playbook head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab a big thank you to cognism for
inviting me on their podcast to share
this breakdown and that's it for now
folks I shall catch you on the next
episode of Breaking B2B cheers for
tuning in
[Music]